Hi, I'm Manon Lacroix, I've been 35 years in the government.
I'm Algonquin from the Kitigan Zibi, but I've not lived in the community.
To me, decolonization has been important since the beginning.
I started in the government, because of the culture has not been passed on to me
some people took me under their wing and they were, I really have gratitude for these people.
A lot of them I missed, they are retired now and some are gone.
My mentor is gone.
They took me under their wing to let me learn many cultures.
And decolonization to me is what I've always learned is that you're able to voice how you feel to anyone in respect, of course,
but with your heart and honesty that we are able to live in a work community that the hierarchy is not as important.
I'd like to be able to just knock at the door of my DM to share some thoughts about something we're planning for recruitment for Indigenous People.
Or just say, you know, I think it's being overlooked that we should be working more on the retention of our actual Indigenous employees
because we don't want them to leave, pass on their corporate memory, be there for the next generation coming behind me.
I would like to be able to share what I learned.
And to me, it's a way to thank my mentors and people that helped me throughout my career.
Hierarchy is important for work to be delivered so that we know our plans and there are different levels of experience and education.
But it's not important when it comes to communicating how you feel and for the work environment.
So, the payroll, does not become important anymore, it is really appreciated when the person is genuine and there to listen, that we work together, that the
Indigenous employees' networks are consulted, or when colleagues elsewhere are developing a great initiative, not only consulted but kept in the loop.
It's one thing to consult and say, I've consulted you regarding this initiative we're doing, but then you hear nothing, no news until it's just launched,
and there's no more opportunity to give feedback in case it would have been needed.
Many Voices One Mind report card is very important to be in constant link with their Indigenous employees.
Those that are known, I know that the self ID issue is one thing, but there are always willing Indigenous employees that have identified themselves
and said that they're willing to be contacted, even if there's one, two or ten or 20, there's always some.
Yes, we have our work to do.
We can ask those that are just voluntary and those networks at certain time because they want to be able to advance in their regular day job.
Many are there and it would be our pleasure to help advance in the many areas for decolonization.